The partner must provide evidence for all four (4) of the following scenarios, across a
minimum of two (2) unique customer projects completed within the past twelve (12)
months. Each customer case does not have to include all four (4) scenarios, a single project
may satisfy multiple scenarios.
1. Migration of Infra (Windows Server) to Azure
2. Migration of Linux-based applications to Azure
3. Migration of Microsoft SQL databases to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL
Managed Instance (MI)*
4. Migration of MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB or MongoDB database to Azure *
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud 
Oracle migration to PostgreSQL, Cosmo DB or Azure SQL will qualify in scenarios three (3) &
four (4). 
Required Evidence: The partner must provide evidence for all four (4) of the above following
scenarios, across a minimum of two (2) unique customer projects completed within the past
twelve (12) months. Each customer case does not have to include all four (4) scenarios, a single
project may satisfy multiple scenarios. 
Assessments may be done manually or through an industry-accepted assessment tool.
Accepted Documentation: Output from Assessment Tools such as: Azure Migrate, Movere, or
other similar Third-party Tooling Reports, Assessment Checklists, Templates, Questionnaires and
Project Plans.21 
3.0 Design
The partner has robust methodologies for designing the workload.
Requirement
3.1 Solution Design including Azure Landing Zone 
The partner must provide relevant solution design documents that show a consistent approach
to addressing customer requirements that were captured in the Assessment phase.
Required Evidence:
The partner must provide solution designs that show a consistent approach to addressing customer
requirements that were captured from the Assessment phase.
The partner must provide evidence for two (2) of the four (4) following solution design
scenarios across a minimum of two (2) unique customer projects completed within the past
twelve (12) months. Each customer case does not have to include all scenarios, a single project
may satisfy multiple scenarios.
1. Migration of Windows-based applications to Azure
2. Migration of Linux-based applications to Azure
3. Migration of Microsoft SQL databases to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL Managed
Instance (MI)*
4. Migration of MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB or MongoDB database to Azure * 
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud 
Oracle migration to PostgreSQL, Cosmo DB or Azure SQL will qualify in scenarios three (3) & four
(4). 
The solution design must show all of the following:
• A migration design or strategy that outlines which applications, databases, or
database auxiliary components (reporting service, integration service) are in scope
for the migration.
• An outline of the migration method (rehost, refactor, or replatform) to be used for the
application, database, database auxiliary components, and so on. It should show how the
design addresses the workload dependencies that were demonstrated in the assessment, with
appropriate mitigations.
• The migration risk assessment and risk mitigation. The high-level migration sequence and
estimated time to finish the migration. The validation of the successful migration completion. Azure landing zone (ALZ): The environment that supports the referenced customer
deployments should address each of the design areas below required below. If an item is not
relevant, the partner must document the customer’s decision to deviate from applying best
practices.22 
