specialization deployments only: If no Identity or Networking components are deployed in the
Azure Landing Zone, a documented focus on Resource organization attributes is sufficient to
pass this control.
4.0 Governance
The partner must demonstrate their customer’s role in governing cloud-based solutions and the Azure
tools they use to facilitate any governance requirements their customer might have today or in the
future.
Requirement
4.1 Governance Tooling
The partner must demonstrate the ability to deploy the required governance tools for two (2)
unique customer projects.
Required evidence:
The partner must demonstrate the use of Azure Policy to provide controls to govern the
environment for two (2) unique customers with Azure projects that were completed in the
past twelve (12) months. See governance tools for templates.
5.0 Manage
The partner must demonstrate that they have set up their customers for operational success after the
deployment is completed. All partners have a role in setting up operations management, even if they do
not provide long-term managed services.
Requirement
5.1 Operations Management Tooling
The partner must demonstrate the use of Azure products or equivalent to help their
customer and/or managed service provider operate the environment after deployment.
Required evidence:
The partner must demonstrate the deployment of at least one (1) of the following Azure
products or third-party equivalents: Azure Monitor, Azure Automation, or Azure Backup/Site
Recovery, for two (2) unique customers with projects that were completed in the past twelve
(12) months. 
Special Evidence Note:
For Analytics on Azure specialization deployments and Data Warehouse Migration to Azure
specialization deployments only: If no Operations Management Tooling is deployed, this control
may be skipped.19 
Module B: Infrastructure and Database Migration to Microsoft Azure
Specialization 
1.0 Third-party Certifications required
The partner’s resources are highly knowledgeable in open-source technologies.
Requirement
1.1 Certification required for Infra and Database Migration to Azure standard pathway
The partner must be a member of either the Red Hat Business Partner Program
OR the SUSE One Partner Program
OR they must have two (2) full-time employees who each have one (1) of the following
certifications:
• Linux Foundation Certified Sys Admin
• Linux Foundation Certified Engineer
• LPIC-1 Certified Linux Administrator
• LPIC-2 Certified Linux Engineer
• Linux Professional Institute DevOps Tools Engineer
• PostgreSQL Professional Certification (V13 until Nov. 2025)
• PostgreSQL Advanced v16 Certification V2
• RedHat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA)
• RedHat Certified Engineer (RHCE)
• Red Hat Certified Architect (RHCA)
• SUSE Enterprise Architect (SEA)
• SUSE Certified Engineer (SCE)
• SUSE Certified Administrator (SCA& SCA+)
• EDB Professional Certification 
Required Evidence:
Certifications must be verified through one (1) of the following below or show that the partner
is listed as a partner in the Red Hat Partner Program Directory or the SUSE One Partner
directory. If the partner is not listed in the Red Hat or SUSE Program directory, two (2) FTEs
must verify one of the above certifications by:
• The Linux Foundation
• Linux Professional Institute (LPI)
• Verify a RedHat Certified Professional | redhat.com
• Red Hat CCSP Program 
• Provide the individual’s profile badge as a PostgreSQL Professional on the
individual’s LinkedIn or other social media pages with this competency or
certification.
• The partner must also provide evidence that the certified personnel are currently full-
time employees.20 
2.0 Assess
The partner must have a consistent approach for assessing customer requirements for the workload.
Requirements
2.1 Workload Assessment
The partner must demonstrate how they assess each workload prior to migration to
ensure that adequate pre-migration or pre-deployment planning and sizing were
performed.
The assessment must include mapping that shows the dependencies upstream from the
resources that will be migrated. It must also show:
• The infrastructure, data volumes and database sizes to be migrated.
• The migration timeline and approach.
• The migration risk assessment.
• Backup and disaster recovery for existing workloads.
• Licensing and cost management requirements.
• Documentation of the customer’s existing identity implementation on Azure, gaps
identification, and best practices recommendations. The partner must provide evidence for all four (4) of the following scenarios, across a
minimum of two (2) unique customer projects completed within the past twelve (12)
months. Each customer case does not have to include all four (4) scenarios, a single project
may satisfy multiple scenarios.
1. Migration of Infra (Windows Server) to Azure
2. Migration of Linux-based applications to Azure
