addressing customer requirements that were captured in the Assessment phase. 
The solution design must show all of the following:
• A migration design or strategy that outlines which applications, databases, or
database auxiliary components (reporting service, integration service) are in scope
for the migration.
• An outline of the migration method (rehost, refactor, or replatform) to be used for the
application, database, database auxiliary components, and so on. It should show how the
design addresses the workload dependencies that were demonstrated in the assessment, with
appropriate mitigations.
• The migration risk assessment and risk mitigation. The high-level migration sequence and
estimated time to finish the migration. The validation of the successful migration completion. 
Azure landing zone (ALZ): The environment that supports the referenced customer
deployments should address each of the design areas below required below. If an item is not
relevant, the partner must document the customer’s decision to deviate from applying
best practices.
Present evidence of:
o Implementation of Identity & Access Management (IAM) and role-based access control
(RBAC), data sovereignty and encryption, application security, and auditing.
o Establishing a hub and spoke architecture or retrofitting the existing deployment to
separate out the network components of a hub for optimal performance and security.
o Showing resource and perimeter security, such as bastion hosts, network
security groups and/or Azure Firewall, and/or virtual security and routing
appliances with appropriate monitoring.
o Using security products, such as Azure security services, Microsoft 365 security, Microsoft Defender for Cloud, or other security solutions, to secure access to the data.
o Using governance tooling to support cost optimization across the environment.
After estimating the initial cost, setting budgets and alerts at different scopes to
proactively monitor the cost.
o Using backup and recovery solutions to ensure data retention.
o Meeting requirements for government regulatory compliance in the new environment,
such as GDPR and HIPAA, and implementing them through multiple datacenter regions, as
needed.
o Implementing a monitoring solution to provide proactive remediation for the Azure
environment, to integrate with the customer's existing monitoring tooling, if appropriate.
o Showing that visualization and alerting considerations for solutions are in place, where
appropriate.
Acceptable Documentation: Project Plan, Functional Specifications, Solution Design Document,
Architectural Diagram, Automated Tooling Reports, and Physical and Logical diagrams.31 
2.2 Azure Well-Architected Review of Workloads
The partner must demonstrate usage of the Azure Well-Architected Review on migrated
applications. The Azure Well-Architected Review is designed to help partners evaluate your
customers' workloads against the latest set of industry best practices. It provides actionable
guidance to design and improve your customers' workloads. 
The Review can be used to evaluate each workload against the pillars of the Azure Well-
Architected Framework that matter to that workload.
Unless otherwise specified, Reviews may be conducted before, during, or after deployment. 
Required Evidence:
The partner must provide exported results from the completed Well-Architected Review.
Evidence for both of the two (2) following migration scenarios across a minimum of two (2)
unique customer projects completed within the last twelve (12) months. Please indicate the
customer’s name in evidence.
1. Migration of Windows Server-based applications to Azure
2. Migration of Microsoft SQL databases to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL Managed
Instance (MI) *
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud.
3.0 Deployment
The partner has robust methodologies for deploying the workload.
Requirement
3.1 Infrastructure Migration Deployment
The partner must provide evidence of their ability to implement an infrastructure migration of
Windows Server to a production environment based on customer approved designs, from one
(1) of the following Azure scenarios below:
1. Move the application from an on-premises Windows Server to Azure infrastructure as
a service (IaaS). *
2. Move the application that is running on Windows Server from another public cloud
platform to Azure IaaS. *
* Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud Required Evidence: The projects shown for this control must be the same as in Control 2.1. The
partner must provide evidence of their ability to implement a Windows server migration to a
production environment from either of the above scenarios, based on customer approved designs,
for a minimum of two (2) unique customers, completed within the past twelve (12) months. The
documentation must cover the entire sequence of the project, including design and production
