Azure specialization audit. Partners work directly with ISSI to schedule this remote session (via online web
conference). For more information about this type of in-depth engagement, see Azure Specialization
Consulting Offer https://issi-inc.com/az-advspeconsulting/
*Please note that there is a cost associated with both ISSI’s Consulting and the Process and Controls Overview. These can be
scheduled at any time with ISSI; however, Microsoft recommends the partner does not schedule these during the actual audit
but instead if chosen, work these into the planning timeline before the audit is scheduled. 
Audit checklists
The Infra and Database Migration to Microsoft Azure Specialization checklist contains two (2) modules, Module A,
Cloud Foundation and Module B: The Infra and Database Migration to Microsoft Azure Specialization workload. 
Module A, Cloud Foundation is required for multiple Azure specializations. Module A evaluates the use of
a consistent methodology and process for Azure adoption that is aligned with customers’ expected
outcomes, spanning the entire cloud adoption lifecycle. Module A is part of the Module B specialization
audit package, and as a requirement must be renewed by audit for all Azure specializations.
To complete or renew Module A, the partner needs to pass all controls in Module A by providing the
specified evidence or providing evidence of a recent (within two years) Module A+B Pass result. The
relevant date for each partner is the Module B Anniversary Date (AD) shown in Partner Center. 
To waiver out of Module A, the partner must provide evidence of a recent (within two years) Pass result for
an applicable A+B audit or a Pass result for the AEMSP Control 3.A within the last year. 
Module A waivers:
All Azure Specializations: When applying to renew subsequent Azure specializations, a previous Module A
+B audit Pass result will satisfy the requirements for Module A if the result has been within two (2) years
and is on the same Module A version. (Module A updates every two years in July). Partners who have
passed an A+B Azure specialization audit within the last two years have satisfied the requirements for
Module A in all Module A+B Azure specialization audits, unless otherwise noted. The relevant Module B
Anniversary Date (AD) is shown in Partner Center.
Special note: Partners who have passed a Module B Azure specialization audit before July 1, 2021, and
specifically for the Analytics on Microsoft Azure specialization before Oct 1, 2021, have likely not passed the
Module A audit and will need to do so to qualify for an Azure Module B specialization audit.13 
AEMSP: Partners who have passed Azure Expert MSP V1.9 and later Module 3.0 (in Full and Progress audits)
have satisfied the requirements for Module A in all Module A+B Azure specialization audits, unless
otherwise noted. AEMSP Partners audit yearly to stay enrolled, and Module 3.A Cloud Adoption Framework
is also a yearly control requirement. 
Special note: Partners who sequentially waiver out of Module A in multiple Module A+B audits and then
subsequently waiver out of AEMSP Module 3.A within a two-year timeline will likely be required to take a
Module A audit at Module A+B renewal. 
If there are questions regarding a potential waiver for Module A, reach out to the Azure Partner Specializations
<azureAS@microsoft.com> 
Module B, The Infra and Database Migration to Microsoft Azure Specialization workload module validates that the partner has adopted robust processes to ensure customer success across all phases of
deploying Infra and Database Migration solutions, from the assessment phase to design, pilot,
implementation, and post-implementation phases. Review the following audit checklist tables for more
details about each control phase and to learn how the partner will be evaluated for an audit. The same
customers may be used for Module A & B. The estimated length of both modules together is eight (8)
hours.
