Required Evidence: The projects shown for this control must be the same as in Control 2.1. The
partner must provide evidence of their ability to implement a Windows server migration to a
production environment from either of the above scenarios, based on customer approved designs,
for a minimum of two (2) unique customers, completed within the past twelve (12) months. The
documentation must cover the entire sequence of the project, including design and production
deployment, and must include at least two (2) of the following evidence items for each customer
project, totaling four (4) evidence artifacts:
• Signed Statements of Work (SOWs) for all projects
• Solution Design Documents for all projects
• The Project Plan and Migration and Deployment sequence32 
• Architecture Diagrams
• High-level Designs (HLDs) and Low-level Designs (LLDs)
• As-built Documentation
For more information see Azure Arc as a landing zone accelerator.
3.2 Database Migrations
The partner must provide evidence of their ability to implement an SQL Server Database migration
to a production environment, based on customer-approved designs from at least two (2) unique
customers, providing evidence for both of the following migration scenarios:
Scenario 1
1. Rehosting from SQL Server on-premises or from another public cloud to SQL IaaS on Azure.
Scenario 2
2.  Replatforming from SQL Server on-premises or from another public cloud to SQL platform as
a service (PaaS) on Azure (SQL Database or SQL Managed Instance). *
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud 
Required Evidence:
The projects shown for this control must be the same as in Control 2.1. The partner must provide
evidence of their ability to implement an SQL Server Database migration to a production
environment, based on customer-approved designs for two (2) unique customers using both
of the above migration scenarios. The documentation must align with the previous solution
design requirements. Each of the database migration projects must have been implemented
within the past twelve (12) months. To cover the entire sequence, including design and
production deployment, the documentation must include at least two (2) of the following
items for each customer project, totaling four (4) evidence artifacts required:
o Signed Statements of Work (SOWs) for the projects
o Solution Design Documents for all projects
o The Project Plan with Migration and Deployment sequence
o Architecture Diagrams
o High-level Designs (HLDs) and Low-level Designs (LLDs)
o As-built Documentation
3.3 Migration Tools
The partner must demonstrate the specific products, tools, or scripts that were used for the
assessment and migration of customer workloads. The partner must demonstrate the customer
accepted the migration approach by showing confirmation from the customer. 
Required Evidence:
Partners must provide documentation and prove customer migration tool experience with at
least one (1) of the following options through a demonstration of tools using (A, B, or C):
A. Show experience with using native Azure migration tools by providing a step-by-
step demonstration that they can effectively use at least four (4) of the following
tools:33 
• Azure Migrate Server Assessment for VMware and Hyper-V
• Data Migration Assistant (DMA)
• SQL Server Migration Assistant (SSMA) • Azure Migrate Server migration VMware and Hyper-V (use of Azure Site Recovery is also
accepted)
• Azure Database Migration Service
• Storage Migration Service 
B. Show experience with third-party tools that integrate with Azure Migrate by demonstrating a
customer project where assessment data is available from Azure Migrate or available to them
