validates that the partner has adopted robust processes to ensure customer success across all phases of
deploying Infra and Database Migration solutions, from the assessment phase to design, pilot,
implementation, and post-implementation phases. Review the following audit checklist tables for more
details about each control phase and to learn how the partner will be evaluated for an audit. The same
customers may be used for Module A & B. The estimated length of both modules together is eight (8)
hours.
Alternate Pathway Note: You may qualify for an alternate audit checklist using alternate evidence scenarios if
Microsoft communicates this is available to you. To inquire ask at Azure Partner Specializations
<azureAS@microsoft.com>
Module A: Cloud Foundation
1. Strategy
2. Plan
3. Environment readiness and Azure landing zone
4. Governance
5. Manage 
Module B: Infra and Database Migration to Microsoft Azure workload 
1. Third- party certifications
2. Assess
3. Design
4. Deployment
5. Review and Release for operations 
To pass the audit, the partner must complete all audit checklist items.
Module A, Cloud Foundation is required for multiple Azure specializations. To complete Module A: Cloud
Foundation, the partner needs to pass all controls in Module A by providing the specified evidence.
Alternatively, the partner may present evidence of a previous pass result from Module A or from another
Azure specialization audit conducted on V2.0 or later.14 
Module B, The Infra and Database Migration to Microsoft Azure Specialization workload. Each control has one
(1) or more requirements and requires evidence the partner must provide for the auditor. Both the
requirements and the required evidence are defined in the following tables. For some controls, a reference
customer or customer evidence is the documentation requested.
Each customer case does not have to include all four (4) scenarios. A single project may satisfy multiple
scenarios.
1. Migration of Infra (Windows Server) Applications to Azure
2. Migration of Linux-based applications to Azure
3. Migration of Microsoft SQL to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance (MI)
4. Migration of MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB or MongoDB database to Azure
For Module B, an alternate pathway:
Each customer case does not have to include all scenarios. A single project may satisfy both scenarios. 
1. Migration of Infra (Windows Server) Applications to Azure
2. Migration of Microsoft SQL databases to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance (MI) 
For audit evidence relating to customer engagements, the partner can use a customer case study and reference it
multiple times. The same or different customers can be used for Modules A & B if they demonstrate requirements.15 
Module A: Cloud Foundation control checklist 
1.0 Strategy and FinOps
The partner must have a defined approach for helping their customer evaluate and define a cloud
adoption strategy beyond an individual asset (app, VM, or data).
Requirement
1.1 Cloud Adoption Business Strategy
The partner must have a defined process that captures the data-driven business strategies
being used to guide customer decisions. The process should include, at minimum, the
following:
1. A strategy review that captures the customer’s business needs and the problems the
customer is trying to solve.
2. Personalized recommendations from the partner for the customers’ business
strategies.
Required evidence:
A Report, Presentation, or Documented Plan that captures strategic inputs and decisions
for two (2) unique customers, and that demonstrate the Azure Cloud Adoption Business
decisions for the Azure Cloud Framework, by using the Cloud Adoption Strategy Evaluator
(CASE) assessment output. 
These projects should have been completed in the past twelve (12) months. The projects
must be aligned with the above-described processes 1 and 2 and highlight both customer
Business and FinOps (Financial) outcomes. 
For an example, see the Cloud Adoption Strategy Evaluator,  Strategy and plan templates
in the Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure, and especially the FinOps Assessment best
practices in Build. 
2.0 Plan
The partner must have a consistent approach to planning for cloud adoption that is based on the strategy
outlined in the preceding section.
Requirement16 
2.1 Cloud Adoption Plan
The partner must have a process and approach for planning and tracking the
completion of cloud adoption projects.
Required evidence: The partner must provide evidence of their capability for process and approach to
planning and completion with examples of two (2) unique customer projects that were
completed in the past twelve (12) months.
Acceptable evidence will include at least one (1) of the following for each customer:
