• Azure Migrate Server migration VMware and Hyper-V (use of Azure Site Recovery is also
accepted)
• Azure Database Migration Service
• Storage Migration Service 
B. Show experience with third-party tools that integrate with Azure Migrate by demonstrating a
customer project where assessment data is available from Azure Migrate or available to them
offline and they perform the migration by using third-party tooling.
C. Show experience with all other third-party tools by referencing the tools used in a project plan
for successfully migrating a customer to Azure, or by providing a spreadsheet with output from
and snapshots of results in an output file from the tools that they used.
Tools may include but are not limited to:
• CloudSphere
• Carbonite
• PlateSpin
• CloudEndure
• River Meadow
• Cloudamize
• Zerto
• StratoZone
3.4 Automated Deployment and Provisioning Tools
The partner must demonstrate specific products, tools, or scripts that they used for automated
provisioning and deprovisioning of infrastructure and database migrations, including tools for
continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD). 
Required Evidence:
Include Demonstrations of Products, Tools, or Scripts used for:
• Automated deployment, including creation of workload deployment templates.
• Cloud service provisioning and deprovisioning, including viewing of service template,
packages, or runbooks that were used in the deployment of customers’ Azure
environments.
• Automation of routine operations, or automated scale-out. 
The partner must provide evidence of tools, products, or scripts for either a completed
Windows Server or SQL Server migration project for two (2) unique customer projects
completed within the last twelve (12) months.34 
4.0 Review and Release for Operations
The partner has robust methodologies for transitioning the workload.
Requirement
4.1 Service Validation and Testing
The partner must validate the deployment, including:
• Their documented process and approach to testing and evaluating the performance
of all applications against customers’ expectations and Azure best practices.
• Their documented process and approach to evaluating and improving architectural best
practices to remediate issues with migrated platforms or workloads that do not meet
performance or cost expectations. 
Required Evidence: The partner must provide evidence of both of the following service
validation and testing scenarios including validation and performance evaluation across a
minimum of two (2) unique customer projects completed within the past twelve (12) months.
The documentation must indicate that the implemented service validation solution meets
customer expectations, and it must include a sign-off from each customer.
1. Migration of Windows Server-based applications to Azure
2. Migration of Microsoft SQL databases to Azure (including Arc-enabled SQL MI) *
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud. 
Evidence can be the same as the projects presented in earlier controls as long as they
demonstrate the required control definition.35 
4.2 Post-deploymentDocumentation
The partner must provide post-deployment operational documentation to show that their
customers are successfully using the new service on Azure. It must:
• Demonstrate how the partner’s documents, decisions, architectural designs, and
procedures were implemented.
• Demonstrate standard operating procedures for the business-as-usual
operations team that describe “how to” scenarios.
Required Evidence:
The partner must provide evidence for two (2) completed Windows Server and SQL Server
migration demonstrating both scenarios below across two (2) unique customers completed within
the past twelve (12) months.
1. Migration of Windows Server-based applications to Azure
2. Migration of Microsoft SQL databases to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL Managed
Instance (MI) * 
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud.36 
Azure Specializations Partner FAQ 
Questions regarding the Azure Partner program specializations, the current checklists and pre-
qualifications for partners can usually be answered by visiting Microsoft Azure Partner Specializations 
Questions on the audit checklists and program can be sent to the Azure Partner Specializations help alias.
<mailto:AzureAS@microsoft.com> 
If you have questions that have not been answered, please go to Partner Center support to create a ticket
with our Frontline team.