Azure landing zone (ALZ): The environment that supports the referenced customer
deployments should address each of the design areas below required below. If an item is not
relevant, the partner must document the customer’s decision to deviate from applying best
practices.22 
Present evidence of:
o Implementation of Identity & Access Management (IAM) and role-based access control
(RBAC), data sovereignty and encryption, application security, and auditing.
o Establishing a hub and spoke architecture or retrofitting the existing deployment
to separate out the network components of a hub for optimal performance and
security.
o Showing resource and perimeter security, such as bastion hosts, network
security groups and/or Azure Firewall, and/or virtual security and routing
appliances with appropriate monitoring.
o Using security products, such as Azure security services, Microsoft 365 security,
Microsoft Defender for Cloud, or other security solutions, to secure access to
the data.
o Using governance tooling to support cost optimization across the environment.
After estimating the initial cost, setting budgets and alerts at different scopes
to proactively monitor the cost.
o Using backup and recovery solutions to ensure data retention.
o Meeting requirements for government regulatory compliance in the new
environment, such as GDPR and HIPAA, and implementing them through
multiple datacenter regions, as needed.
o Implementing a monitoring solution to provide proactive remediation for the
Azure environment, to integrate with the customer's existing monitoring
tooling, if appropriate.
o Showing that visualization and alerting considerations for solutions are in
place, where appropriate. 
Acceptable Documentation: Project Plan, Functional Specifications, Solution Design
Document, Architectural Diagram, Automated Tooling Reports, and Physical and Logical
diagrams.23 
3.2 Azure Well-Architected Review of Workloads
The partner must demonstrate usage of the Azure Well-Architected Review on migrated
applications. The Azure Well-Architected Review is designed to help partners evaluate your
customers' workloads against the latest set of industry best practices. It provides actionable
guidance to design and improve your customers' workloads.
The Review can be used to evaluate each workload against the pillars of the Azure Well-
Architected Framework that matter to that workload.
Unless otherwise specified, Reviews may be conducted before, during, or after deployment. 
Required Evidence: The partner must provide exported results from the completed Well –
Architected Review. Evidence for all four (4) of the following migration scenarios across a
minimum of two (2) unique customer projects completed within the past twelve (12) months.
Each customer case does not have to include all four (4) scenarios. A single project may
satisfy multiple scenarios. Please indicate the customer’s name in evidence.
1. Migration of Infra (Windows Server) to Azure
2. Migration of Linux-based applications to Azure
3. Migration of Microsoft SQL to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL Managed
Instance (MI)*
4. Migration of MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB or MongoDB database to Azure*
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud 
• Oracle migration to PostgreSQL, Cosmo DB or Azure SQL will qualify in scenarios three
(3) & four (4).
4.0 Deployment
The partner has robust methodologies for deploying the workload.
Requirement
4.1 Infrastructure Migration Deployment
The partner must provide evidence of their ability to migrate infrastructure to a production
environment based on customer approved designs, from one (1) of the following Azure
Infrastructure scenarios:
• Move the application from an on-premises Windows/Linux Server to Azure
infrastructure as a service (IaaS). (*)
• Move the application that is running on Windows Server/Linux from
another public cloud platform to Azure IaaS. (*) 
* Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud24 
For more information see Azure Arc as a landing zone accelerator. 
Required Evidence: The projects shown for this control must be the same as in Control 3.1
The partner must provide evidence of their ability to implement an infrastructure migration to a
production environment, based on customer-approved designs for a minimum of two (2)
unique customers using one (1) of the above migration scenarios. The documentation must
include at least two (2) of the following evidence items for each customer project, totaling four (4) evidence artifacts:
• Signed Statements of Work (SOWs) for all projects
• Solution Design Documents for all projects
• The Project Plan and Migration and Deployment sequence
• Architecture Diagrams
• High-level Designs (HLDs) and Low-level Designs (LLDs)
• As-built Documentation
4.2 Database Migrations
The partner must provide evidence of their ability to migrate databases to Azure with customer
