The partner must provide evidence of their capability for process and approach to
planning and completion with examples of two (2) unique customer projects that were
completed in the past twelve (12) months.
Acceptable evidence will include at least one (1) of the following for each customer:
• Azure DevOps backlog OR
• Tools for project planning and tracking used by the partner OR
• Cloud Adoption Plan Generator output using the Azure Cloud Adoption Framework  
2.2 Plan for Skilling
When customers adopt the cloud, their existing technical staff will need a variety of new
skills to aid in making technical decisions and to support the new cloud implementations.
To ensure the long- term success of the customer, the partner must document a skilling
plan to prepare the customer’s technical staff.
The Partner must document a list of key customer technical roles expected to require
new skills such as, but not limited to, IT Admins, IT Governance, IT Operations, and
IT Security.
The documentation must include:
1. A description of the new skills the technical roles will need to achieve to
successfully manage the new environment.
2. Resources the customer can leverage when training their technical employees
such as Microsoft learning paths, technical certifications, or other comparable
resources. 
For guidance, review Microsoft docs Azure Cloud Adoption Framework How to build
a skilling readiness plan.
Required evidence:
The partner must provide a skilling plan for at least two (2) unique customer
engagements completed within the last twelve (12) months. The two (2) skilling plans
documented can include a customer-facing presentation, planning documents, post
deployment documentation or similar plan documentation.  
3.0 Environment Readiness and Azure Landing Zone
The partner must be able to demonstrate that the following design areas are addressed through their
approach to landing zone implementation.
Requirement17 
3.1 Repeatable Deployment
The partner must demonstrate adherence to Azure landing zone (ALZ) design areas through a
repeatable deployment. The deployment should configure, at minimum, the following
identity, network, and resource organization attributes:
• Identity
o Adoption of identity management solutions, such as Microsoft Entra ID
(formerly Azure Active Directory) or equivalent
• Networking architecture design (topology)
o Define an Azure network topology - Cloud Adoption Framework | Microsoft Docs
o Application of hybrid architectures that use Azure ExpressRoute, VPN
Gateway, or equivalent services for connecting local datacenters to
Azure
• Resource organization
o Implementation of tagging and naming standards during the project 
The partner must demonstrate which of the following approaches they used when they
deployed Azure landing zones for two (2) unique customers:
1. Start small and expand: Azure landing zone does not deploy
governance or operations configurations, which are addressed later
in the implementation.
2. Full Azure landing zone (ALZ) conceptual architecture: Azure landing zones
implement standard approach to the configuration of governance and
operations tools prior to implementation.
3. Alternative approach: If the partner follows a proprietary approach or a mixture
of the two (2) approaches above, the partner must clearly articulate their
approach to environment configuration.
4. Brownfield scenario: The partner’s customer has a landing zone that does not
follow best practices, and an update is required to follow best practices in the
Cloud Adoption Framework.
Required evidence:
The partner must provide evidence of a repeatable deployment they used to create landing
zones, aligned to the Azure landing zone (ALZ) conceptual architecture, deployed to two (2)
unique customer environments using Bicep or Terraform modules, and ARM (AZURE Resource
Manager) templates to automatically deploy the environment configuration. 
If a customer deviates from the specified architecture, the partner must demonstrate the
customer requirements to justify the deviation. 
The provided template can be pulled directly from the Cloud Adoption Framework Landing zone
implementation options, or it can be based on the partner’s own IP (Intellectual Property). 
In either case, the output evidence must demonstrate the configuration of the identity, network,18 
and resource organization, as described earlier above. 
Special Evidence Note:
For Analytics on Azure specialization deployments and Data Warehouse Migration to Azure specialization deployments only: If no Identity or Networking components are deployed in the
Azure Landing Zone, a documented focus on Resource organization attributes is sufficient to
pass this control.
4.0 Governance
The partner must demonstrate their customer’s role in governing cloud-based solutions and the Azure
