B. Show experience with third-party tools that integrate with Azure Migrate by demonstrating a
customer project where assessment data is available from Azure Migrate or available to them
offline and they perform the migration by using third-party tooling.
C. Show experience with all other third-party tools by referencing the tools used in a project plan
for successfully migrating a customer to Azure, or by providing a spreadsheet with output from
and snapshots of results in an output file from the tools that they used.
Tools may include but are not limited to:
• CloudSphere
• Carbonite
• PlateSpin
• CloudEndure
• River Meadow
• Cloudamize
• Zerto
• StratoZone26 
4.4 Automated Deployment and Provisioning Tools
The partner must demonstrate specific products, tools, or scripts that they used for automated
provisioning and deprovisioning of infrastructure and database migrations, including tools for
continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD). 
Required Evidence:
Include Demonstrations of Products, Tools, or Scripts used for:
• Automated deployment, including creation of workload deployment templates.
• Cloud service provisioning and deprovisioning, including viewing of service template,
packages, or runbooks that were used in the deployment of customers’ Azure
environments.
• Automation of routine operations, or automated scale-out. 
The partner must provide evidence for all four (4) of the Infra and Database Migration
deployment and provisioning scenarios across a minimum of two (2) unique customer
projects completed within the past twelve (12) months. Each customer case does not have to
include all four (4) scenarios, a single project may satisfy multiple scenarios.27 
5.0 Review and Release for Operations
The partner has robust methodologies for transitioning the workload.
Requirement
5.1 Service Validation and Testing
The partner must validate the deployment, including:
• Their documented process and approach to testing and evaluating the performance
of all applications against customers’ expectations and Azure best practices.
• Their documented process and approach to evaluating and improving architectural
best practices to remediate issues with migrated platforms or workloads that do not
meet performance or cost expectations.
Evidence can be the same as the projects presented in earlier controls as long as they
demonstrate the required control definition. 
Required Evidence: The partner must provide evidence for all four (4) of the following service
validation and testing scenarios, including validation and performance evaluation across a
minimum of two (2) unique customer projects completed within the past twelve (12) months. 
Each customer case does not have to include all four (4) scenarios, a single project may satisfy
multiple scenarios. The documentation must indicate that the implemented service validation
solution meets customer expectations, and it must include a sign-off from each customer.
1. Migration of Infra (Windows Server) to Azure
2. Migration of Linux-based applications to Azure
3. Migration of Microsoft SQL to Azure (including Arc-enabled SQL MI) *
4. Migration of MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB or MongoDB database to Azure* 
• Oracle migration to PostgreSQL, Cosmo DB or Azure SQL will qualify in scenarios three (3)
& four (4).
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud.28 5.2 Post-deploymentDocumentation
The partner must provide post-deployment operational documentation to show that their
customers are successfully using the new service on Azure. It must:
• Demonstrate how the partner’s documents, decisions, architectural designs, and
procedures were implemented.
