The audit checklist will be updated to stay current with technology and market changes, and the
audit is conducted by an independent, third-party auditor.
The following is included in the audit blueprint:
1. Audit Roles
2. Audit Process: High level overview
3. Audit Process: Details
4. Audit Best Practices and Resources8 
Audit roles
Role of the auditor 
The auditor reviews submitted evidence and objectively assesses whether the evidence provided by the partner
satisfies the audit checklist requirements. The auditor selects and evaluates evidence, based on samples of the
information available from live systems. The appropriate use of such sampling is closely related to the confidence
that can be placed in the audit conclusions. All ISSI auditors are under a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) with
Microsoft. Auditors will also comply with requests from partners to sign a direct NDA. 
Role of the partner 
The partner must provide objective evidence that satisfies the auditor for all checklist items. It is the responsibility of
the partner to have reviewed all check-list items prior to the audit, to have collected all necessary documentation and
evidence, and to have ensured that the right subject matter experts are available to discuss and show systems, as
appropriate. All audit evidence must be reproducible and verifiable.
Role of the Microsoft Partner Development Manager 
For partners that have an assigned Microsoft Partner Development Manager (PDM), the PDM is responsible for ensuring
that the partner fully understands the requirements prior to applying for the audit. The PDM may attend the optional
consulting engagements that ISSI offers, but the PDM and other Microsoft FTEs may not attend the audit. 
Audit Process: High-level overview 
Step Action Responsibility
1 Review: Specialization requirements in Partner Center. Review audit
checklists in the specialization and begin to prepare the necessary
evidence with personnel for an evidence-based audit. Recommended:
Before you apply, review the specific audit checklist thoroughly and
confirm SME personnel required for the audit date.
Partner
2 Meet the prerequisites and apply for the audit: In the initial
application phase, applications are submitted in two (2) stages: 
1. Prerequisite requirements (see Partner Center for details)
2. Audit
Do not start the application process unless you are ready to undertake
the audit. Assess your firm’s ability to complete the audit, including
considerations for readiness, employee availability, and holidays.
Partner
3 Validate: The partner meets all requirements prior to audit. Microsoft 
Confirmed by Microsoft: Microsoft confirms with the third-party audit
company that the partner is eligible for audit.
Microsoft
4 
5 Schedule with partner: The auditor will schedule within two (2) business
days.
Auditor (with
partner)9 
6 Conduct the audit: Within thirty (30) calendar days of the approval for
audit.
Auditor
7 Provide a Gap Report: If applicable, to the partner within two (2)
business days of the completed audit, listing any Open Action Items. *
Auditor
8 Acknowledge Gap Report receipt and schedule meeting: Within two
(2) business days of receiving the Gap Report, the partner acknowledges
receipt of the report and schedules a Gap Review Meeting. Partners can
begin immediate remediation of open items.
Partner
9 Complete the meeting: Within fifteen (15) calendar days of receiving the Gap Report, the partner schedules and completes the Gap Review
Meeting with the auditor to provide evidence and address any Open
Action Items. *
Auditor (with
partner)
10 Issue Final Report: To the partner within five (5) business days. Notify
Microsoft of audit Pass or No Pass result.
Auditor
11 Notify partner: About program status within two (2) business days. Microsoft
