5.2 Post-deploymentDocumentation
The partner must provide post-deployment operational documentation to show that their
customers are successfully using the new service on Azure. It must:
• Demonstrate how the partner’s documents, decisions, architectural designs, and
procedures were implemented.
• Demonstrate standard operating procedures for the business-as- usual operations team
that describe “how to” scenarios.
Required Evidence:
The partner must provide operational evidence for all four (4) of the deployment scenarios
across a minimum of two (2) unique customer projects completed within the past twelve (12)
months. Each customer case does not have to include all four (4) scenarios, a single project
may satisfy multiple scenarios. 
The documentation must indicate that the implemented service validation solution meets
customer expectations, and it must include a sign-off from each customer.
1. Migration of Infra (Windows Server) to Azure
2. Migration of Linux-based applications to Azure
3. Migration of Microsoft SQL to Azure (including Arc-enabled SQL MI) *
4. Migration of MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB or MongoDB database to Azure*
• Oracle migration to PostgreSQL, Cosmo DB or Azure SQL will qualify in scenarios three (3)
& four (4).
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud. 
For pre-qualified partners only, Module B: Alternate audit using Windows and SQL for evidence with
renewing partners. Microsoft will approve you for this checklist, using telemetry and analysis. This is
not a self-nomination. Reach out to Azure Partner Specializations azureAS@microsoft.com  to confirm
your qualification. 
Alternate Pathway Audit: Infra & Database Migration to Azure checklist 
1.0 Assess
The partner must have a consistent approach for assessing customer requirements for the workload.
Requirement29 
1.1 Workload Assessment
The partner must demonstrate how they assess each workload prior to migration to
ensure that adequate pre-migration or pre-deployment planning and sizing were
performed.
The assessment must include mapping that shows the dependencies upstream from the resources
that will be migrated. It must also show:
• The infrastructure, data volumes and database sizes to be migrated.
• The migration timeline and approach.
• The migration risk assessment.
• Backup and disaster recovery for existing workloads.
• Licensing and cost management requirements.
• Documentation of the customer’s existing identity implementation on Azure, gaps
identification, and best practices recommendations.
The partner must provide evidence for both of the scenarios below, across a minimum of two (2) unique
customer migration projects, completed within the last twelve (12) months. 
1. Migration of Windows Server-based applications to Azure
2. Migration of Microsoft SQL databases to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance
(MI) *
Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud 
Required Evidence: The partner should provide relevant design documents showing that the preceding
items were reviewed for at least two (2) unique customers with Windows Server Applications and
Microsoft SQL Server migration projects, completed within the past twelve (12) months. The partner
must show that all assessment details were considered for these customers.
Assessments may be done manually or through an industry-accepted assessment tool.
Accepted Documentation: Output from Assessment Tools such as: Azure Migrate, Movere, or other
similar Third-party Tooling Reports, Assessment Checklists, Templates, Questionnaires and Project
Plans.
2.0 Design
The partner has robust methodologies for designing the workload.
Requirement
2.1 Solution Design including Azure Landing Zone
The partner must provide solution designs that show a consistent approach to addressing customer
requirements that were captured from the Assessment phase.
The partner must provide evidence for both of the following scenarios across a minimum of two
(2) unique customer projects completed within the last twelve (12) months:
• Migration of Windows Server-based applications to Azure
• Migration of Microsoft SQL databases to Azure (can include Arc-enabled SQL Managed
Instance (MI) *
*Note: Azure includes Microsoft datacenters, Arc enabled Azure on-prem or Arc enabled multi-cloud.30 
The partner must provide relevant solution design documents that show a consistent approach to addressing customer requirements that were captured in the Assessment phase. 
The solution design must show all of the following:
• A migration design or strategy that outlines which applications, databases, or
database auxiliary components (reporting service, integration service) are in scope
