conference platform of choice. The meeting must take place within fifteen (15) calendar days of when the
Gap Report was sent, and it may last no longer than one (1) hour. During the Gap Review Meeting the
partner must present evidence that addresses any and all Open Action Items.
The Gap Review Meeting can produce either of two (2) outcomes:
1. The partner resolves all Open Action Items.
• The auditor confirms that the partner has provided the required evidence.
• The auditor provides a Final Report for the partner.
• The auditor notifies Microsoft about the outcome (subject to Auditor Terms and Conditions). 
2. The partner does not resolve all Open Action Items.
• The auditor presents a brief synopsis of the audit, including missed items.
• The partner receives a Final Report that details the missed items.
• The auditor notifies Microsoft about the outcome (subject to Audit Terms and Conditions). 
If the partner is still unable to provide satisfactory evidence to the auditor during their Gap Review Meeting,
the partner will be deemed to have failed the audit. Partners that still want to earn this Azure specialization will
need to begin the application process again.11 
Completion of the audit
The audit process concludes when ISSI issues the Final Report after the audit or after the Gap Review. Partners will
receive a Pass or No Pass result upon completion of the audit process. 
A Pass result satisfies the audit requirement for this Azure specialization for two (2) years. A “No Pass” result
is generated when a partner fails or withdraws from the audit. When a No Pass result is entered into Partner
Center, you will see your status as “Audit Failed” in your dashboard. This status will reset within one week to
“Not Enrolled,” allowing you to reapply. Contact Partner Center Support if needed. 
Audit preparation best practices and resources
Partners should ensure that the audit checklist has been thoroughly read in advance of the audit.
• Partners should ensure that all partner stakeholders involved in the audit have a copy of the audit
checklist and are confirmed for the date and time duration of the audit
• A lead stakeholder who knows the entire process must be available for the length of the audit
• Partners should confirm that they have access granted for the auditors, and files and tools are readily
available during the audit exhibits 
Stakeholder SME attendance in the audit 
Stakeholders who can best address the relevant section should be available for the audit. However, please
make sure that a stakeholder who knows the entire process is available for the duration of the audit.
Auditors often probe for more information
The auditor probes for more information to ensure that mature and repeatable processes are in place with the
partner and that they are established, effective, and efficient. The auditor is looking to see how a document
was created, where it is located, and what source materials were used to create the document. By probing for
more information, the auditor evaluates and validates that the partner is operating at an advanced level. This
can only be done by questioning during the audit. This approach is explained to the partner during the
opening meeting.
Acceptable evidence: Excerpts, exhibit file formats and use of PowerPoints 
PowerPoints are a common and accepted format for presenting a high-level overview of a partner’s systems.
However, please also be prepared to present live demonstrations from source files so that the auditor may
confirm that the systems in place are mature and effective. Excerpts can be used to communicate the high-
level overview, however, as sole evidence these are not acceptable. Source documents must also be
presented.12 
Additional resources: Two optional audit preparation offers from the auditing firm *
To ensure objectivity, consulting auditors and auditors conducting the actual audits are different ISSI auditors.
1. Partners can participate in a paid optional, one (1)-hour, live Audit Process & Controls Overview
session provided by ISSI. This session provides a high-level overview of key aspects of the Azure
specialization audit process. Partners work directly with ISSI to schedule this remote session (via online
web conference). For more information about this session, see Azure Specialization - Audit Process and
Controls Overview
2. ISSI also provides optional extensive, paid, in-depth consulting engagements to help partners prepare for their Azure specialization audit. Partners work directly with ISSI to schedule this remote session (via online web
conference). For more information about this type of in-depth engagement, see Azure Specialization
Consulting Offer https://issi-inc.com/az-advspeconsulting/
*Please note that there is a cost associated with both ISSI’s Consulting and the Process and Controls Overview. These can be
